# Tournaments  

This package provides data structures and methods for working with and creating tournaments.

## Tournaments and Matches:  

### Tournaments:  
Tournaments are made up of one or more matches with each match having exactly two participants. Two types of tournaments are supported:  
- _Bracket_: where there are usually multiple progressing rounds of matches, each with fewer participants remaining (with some of the participants having been eliminated in previous rounds) until one champion remains, i.e. the winner of the final match and the only participant not eliminated. Tournaments of type bracket do not allow for a match to result in a tie; a winner must be determined for each match so that the participants of the next round can be determined (some kind of tie-breaker game mechanism must be implemented for this such as overtime or shootouts for example).  
- _Round-Robin_: where each participant plays a match against all of the other participants. No participants are eliminated in this tournament type, and this tournament type might be used as a precursor to a bracket-type tournament in order to determine team seeding. Matches in tournaments of type round-robin can result in a tie since a winner does not need to be declared in order to populate participants in the next round.  

### Matches:  
A match participant can be a team entity or it can be a player entity for individual-based sports (e.g. tennis singles). Every match in a tournament is made up of one or more sets, where a set is a collection of one or more games. The default is for every match to have one set composed of one game. Use the default for single-game tournaments (the NFL and March Madness use this model). A single set with multiple games could also be used. For example, the NHL and NBA playoffs use a single set of 7 games for each match. In a set, a winning threshold is automatically set relative to the set size. The winning threshold is number at which one participant will have won the majority of the games in the set. Once the winning threshold is met by one of the match participants, that participant is declared the winner and no more games are played in that set. Similarly, there is also a winning threshold for sets, and once a match participant reaches the winning streshold for the sets, that participant is declared the winner of the match. In a bracket-type tournament, the winner will advance to the next round (or will be declared the champion if it is the final round). The default behavior is for matches to be composed of an odd number of sets and for sets to be composed of an odd number of games. There is the possiblility to manually configure the winning threshold for matches and/or sets, in which case a margin-for-victory must also be configured. An example of this could be a tennis set in which the first participant to win six games wins the set, provided that they have won two more games in the set than the other participant; if one participant has six wins in the set and the other has five, the participant with 6 wins would need to win an additional game to get to 7-5 and be declared the winner of the set, therefore the margin-for-victory would be two in that scenario. In this configuration, a participant must meet two criteria (instead of just one) in order to be declared the winner: meet the winning threshold and meet the margin-for-victory.  

### Elimination of Participants:  